Subdomain enumeration is the process of finding valid subdomains for a domain, but why do we do this? We do this to expand our attack surface to try and discover more potential points of vulnerability.

We will explore three different subdomain enumeration methods: Brute Force, OSINT (Open-Source Intelligence) and Virtual Host.

OSINT SSL/TLS cert
When an SSL/TLS (Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security) certificate is created for a domain by a CA (Certificate Authority), CA's take part in what's called "Certificate Transparency (CT) logs". These are publicly accessible logs of every SSL/TLS certificate created for a domain name. The purpose of Certificate Transparency logs is to stop malicious and accidentally made certificates from being used. We can use this service to our advantage to discover subdomains belonging to a domain, sites like https://crt.sh offer a searchable database of certificates that shows current and historical results.

OSINT Search engines
Search engines contain trillions of links to more than a billion websites, which can be an excellent resource for finding new subdomains. Using advanced search methods on websites like Google, such as the site: filter, can narrow the search results. For example, site:*.domain.com -site:www.domain.com would only contain results leading to the domain name domain.com but exclude any links to www.domain.com; therefore, it shows us only subdomain names belonging to domain.com.

Go to Google and use the search term site:*.tryhackme.com -site:www.tryhackme.com, which should reveal a subdomain for tryhackme.com;

Bruteforce DNS
ration is the method of trying tens, hundreds, thousands or even millions of different possible subdomains from a pre-defined list of commonly used subdomains. Because this method requires many requests, we automate it with tools to make the process quicker. In this instance, we are using a tool called dnsrecon to perform this. Click the "View Site" button to open the static site, press the "Run DNSrecon Request" button to start the simulation


OSINT sublist3r
To speed up the process of OSINT subdomain discovery, we can automate the above methods with the help of tools like Sublist3r, click the "View Site" button to open up the static site and run the sublist3r simulation to discover a new subdomain that will help answer the question below.


Virtual hosts-
lastly cominh on vhosts
there are virtual web servers who host many webs , so using ffuf and providing subdomain.txt , we can bruteforce the virtual server for subdomains.