Task1-intro
hash value bas ek fixeed size/length ki string hai jisko ek hash function compute karta hai
hash fnk bas ek input value ko andar leta hai aur execute krke ek fixed length ki hash value deta h






Task2-Hash Funtions
hash fnk are different from encryption as there is no key so its practically impossible to go back from output to input
a hash fnk creates digest or summary of that data,its hard to predict an output for a input and vice versa 
any slight change in input data even a bit , can change the whole output
The letter T is 54 in hexadecimal, i.e., 01010100 in binary.
The letter U is 55 in hexadecimal, i.e., 01010101 in binary.

hash collision is a type of problem or kinf of vulnerability in hashing that two different inputs may have same outputs as outputs are limited.
As a numeric example, if a hash function produces a 4-bit hash value, we only have 16 different hash values. The total number of possible hash values is 2number_of_bits = 24 = 16. The probability of a collision is relatively very high.
The pigeonhole effect states that the number of items (pigeons) is more than the number of containers (pigeonholes); some containers must hold more than one item. In other words, in this context, there are a fixed number of different output values for the hash function, but you can give it any size input. As there are more inputs than outputs, some inputs must inevitably give the same output. If you have 21 pigeons and 16 pigeonholes, some of the pigeons are going to share the pigeonholes. Consequently, collisions are unavoidable. However, a good hash function ensures that the probability of a collision is negligible.

MD5 and SHA1 have been attacked multiple times due to hash collisiions and are now considered unsafe 


Task3-insecure password storage for authentication

three insecure practices when it comes to passwords:

1) Storing passwords in plaintext
2) Storing passwords using a deprecated encryption
3) Storing passwords using an insecure hashing algorithm

1) ek company thi rockyou vo apne db me pass ko plaintext me store krti thi to jab us company ka db web hack hua to saare pass leak hogye jisse mtlb rockyou.txt se jaante h jo ki commonly used pass file h

2) Adobe me databreach hua tha kyuki vo insecure and outdated encryption technique ko use krre the

3) LinkedIn also suffered a data breach in 2012. LinkedIn used an insecure hashing algorithm, the SHA-1, to store user passwords. Furthermore, no password salting was used. Password salting refers to adding a salt, i.e., a random value, to the password before it is hashed.

EXTRA SAFETY CHIYE TO PASSWORD SALTING KRKE HASHING LAGADO
1-shadow ek root user file hai jise sirf root user dekh skte h 
sirf shadow file ke baare me ham "man 5 shadow" se jaan skte hai
2-
maanlo ek bahut bada databvase ya txt file hai jisme croro passwords laakho passwords ya kuch imp cheeze hai 
ab usme tume shuru ki 20 ya x lines dekhni hai to use command "head  -n 20 rockyou.txt" 
agar niche se 20 dekhni h to "tail -n 20 rockyou.txt"

grep ka kaam hota hai:
“file me jo line search karni hai, woh dhoond kar dikhana.”

Basic search
grep "password" rockyou.txt


rockyou.txt me jahan-jahan “password” likha hai, woh lines print karega.

agar puri database yatxt file me kitni total entries ya luines h ye count krna h to use "wc -1 rockyou.txt" this cmd counts lines








Task4-Using hashing for secure password storage

bas hashing me vahi limited output 
are isme basically kai saare tools hote hn jinse hum hash value se uska plaintext nikaal sakte hai
A Rainbow Table is a lookup table of hashes to plaintexts, so you can quickly find out what password a user had just from the hash. A rainbow table trades the time to crack a hash for hard disk space, but it takes time to create.






Task5-Recongnising password hashes
kuch chize hoti hai jo shuru me hoti hai sentence ke jinse hum pehchan sakte hai ye hash konsa hai 
for example
Prefix	Algorithm
$y$	yescrypt is a scalable hashing scheme and is the default and recommended choice in new systems
$gy$	gost-yescrypt uses the GOST R 34.11-2012 hash function and the yescrypt hashing method
$7$	scrypt is a password-based key derivation function
$2b$, $2y$, $2a$, $2x$	bcrypt is a hash based on the Blowfish block cipher originally developed for OpenBSD but supported on a recent version of FreeBSD, NetBSD, Solaris 10 and newer, and several Linux distributions
$6$	sha512crypt is a hash based on SHA-2 with 512-bit output originally developed for GNU libc and commonly used on (older) Linux systems
$md5	SunMD5 is a hash based on the MD5 algorithm originally developed for Solaris
$1$	md5crypt is a hash based on the MD5 algorithm originally developed for FreeBSD

linux me eknshadow fikle thi lab me jisme is format me chize thi
$prefix$options$salt$hash

MS Windows Passwords
MS Windows passwords are hashed using NTLM, a variant of MD4. They’re visually identical to MD4 and MD5 hashes, so it’s very important to use context to determine the hash type.

On MS Windows, password hashes are stored in the SAM (Security Accounts Manager). MS Windows tries to prevent normal users from dumping them, but tools like mimikatz exist to circumvent MS Windows security. Notably, the hashes found there are split into NT hashes and LM hashes.









Task6-Password cracking

isme basically hum rockyou.txt ko jihntheripper and hashcat aise tools me lagake bruteforce krdete hai jisse password crack ho jaat ah aur hume mil jaata h

hashcat me ye format rhta hai

hashcat -m attack mode - a attack type hash.txt /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt

attack mode is a number of hash type
Eg
1400 used for Sha256
Attack type means
0 for line by line
1,3,6,7 etc etc for diff diff attack types such as bruteforce etc 
hashcat -m 0 -a 0 hash4.txt /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt
