Task1-Intro
John the Ripper is a well-known, well-loved, and versatile hash-cracking tool. It combines a fast cracking speed with an extraordinary range of compatible hash types.

Upon the completion of this room, you learn about using John for:

Cracking Windows authentication hashes
Crack /etc/shadow hashes
Cracking password-protected Zip files
Cracking password-protected RAR files
Cracking SSH keys





Task2-Basic terms 


hash-basically masking a piece of data and representing it into any other form . achieved by passing a piece of data into a hashing algorithm sucvh as md4 md5 sha1 ntlm etc

example
If we take “polo”, a string of four characters, and run it through an MD5 hashing algorithm, we end up with an output of b53759f3ce692de7aff1b5779d3964da, a standard 32-character MD5 hash.

Likewise, if we take “polomints”, a string of 9 characters, and run it through the same MD5 hashing algorithm, we end up with an output of 584b6e4f4586e136bc280f27f9c64f3b, another standard 32-character MD5 hash.

What Makes Hashes Secure?
Hashing functions are designed as one-way functions. In other words, it is easy to calculate the hash value of a given input; however, it is a hard problem to find the original input given the hash value. In simple terms, a hard problem quickly becomes computationally infeasible in computer science. This computational problem has its roots in mathematics as P vs NP.

thmweb lang , not manually written
In computer science, P and NP are two classes of problems that help us understand the efficiency of algorithms:

P (Polynomial Time): Class P covers the problems whose solution can be found in polynomial time. Consider sorting a list in increasing order. The longer the list, the longer it would take to sort; however, the increase in time is not exponential.
NP (Non-deterministic Polynomial Time): Problems in the class NP are those for which a given solution can be checked quickly, even though finding the solution itself might be hard. In fact, we don’t know if there is a fast algorithm to find the solution in the first place.
While this is a fascinating mathematical concept that proves fundamental to computing and cryptography, it is entirely outside the scope of this room. But abstractly, the algorithm to hash the value will be “P” and can, therefore, be calculated reasonably. However, an “un-hashing” algorithm would be “NP” and intractable to solve, meaning that it cannot be computed in a reasonable time using standard computers.

john the ripper ek dictionary of words ko use mkrta hai bruteforce attacks krne ke liye to find out the pass oir crack the pass , whuich is also callede dictionary attack
